Migrating tempalte jobs to multi-stage (#23)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/how-tos/migrating-template-jobs-to-multistage.md

---
title: "Migrating CI Jobs from Templates to Multi-stage Tests"
date: 2020-10-30T21:49:06+02:00
draft: false
---

OpenShift CI offers two mechanisms for setting up end-to-end tests: older 
template-based tests and newer [multi-stage test workflows](/docs/architecture/step-registry/).
Template-based tests cause problems for both DPTP and OpenShift CI users:
 - they need intensive support
 - backing implementation is buggy and notoriously difficult to maintain
 - jobs using templates are hard to extend, modify, and troubleshoot

These concerns were addressed in designing the multi-stage workflows, which
supersede template-based tests. DPTP wants to migrate all existing template-based
jobs to multi-stage workflows in the medium term.

## Migrating Jobs Generated from `ci-operator` Configurations

Most template-based jobs are generated from `ci-operator` configuration stanzas.
Migrating these jobs is easier and can be done almost mechanically. Soon, DPTP
will migrate all existing `ci-operator` configurations to multi-stage workflows

> automatically.

Reviewer: maybe this is too obvious but mention that we expect this to cause no service disruption

### `openshift_installer_src`

The tests using the `openshift_installer_src` stanza install OpenShift using a
generic IPI installation workflow, execute a provided command in the context of
the `src` image (which contains a git clone of the tested repository), and

> teardown the cluster. The template provides tests a writable `$HOME` and injects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tear down the cluster. The template provides tests a writable `$HOME` and injects
```

the `oc` binary from the `cli` image, which must be explicitly imported in

> `base_images`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think so? Just using `latest` works fine

Reviewer: Yeah the template would only have worked for users that had `tag_specification` and would have always given them the `latest:cli` injection

Author: I've tried few ways how to describe it well then decided to just not go into more details :)

    from: stable:aws-ebs-csi-driver-operator-test
```

#### After (multi-stage)
```yaml
tests:
- as: e2e-test
  steps:
    cluster_profile: aws                             # needs to match the workflow
    test:                                            # override the `test` section
    - as: test                                       # name of the step
      cli: latest                                    # inject the `oc` binary 
      commands: make test                            # execute `make test`...
      from: stable:aws-ebs-csi-driver-operator-test  # ...inside the specified image
      resources:             
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
    workflow: ipi-aws        # `ipi-$PLATFORM` workflows implement the "usual" OpenShift installation
```

#### Gotchas

These are the possible problems you may encounter when porting an
`openshift_installer_custom_test_image` test to a multi-stage workflow.

##### Tests rely on injected `openshift-tests` binary

The `openshift_installer_custom_test_image` template silently injected
`openshift-tests` binary to the specified image. This was a hack and will not
be implicitly supported in multi-stage workflows. 

> **Resolution:** Tests that need `openshift-tests` binary should use a custom image

Reviewer: Or suggest they run multiple steps, one with the tests image and one with their custom one, that is likely simpler for most consumers.
